---
layout: post
comments: true
toc: true
title: Chulapa
date: 2025-03-02 00:42:18 +02:00
repo: https://github.com/dieghernan/chulapa
demo: https://dieghernan.github.io/chulapa/
forks: 21
stars: 79
download: https://github.com/dieghernan/chulapa/archive/refs/heads/main.zip
author: Diego H.
thumbnail: chulapa.jpg
license: MIT
license_link: https://opensource.org/license/MIT
carousel:
  - 'screenshot.png'
---

Chulapa, A full flexible Jekyll theme for Github Pages. A great alternative for blogs, news, portfolios and personal sites.

## Table Of Contents

- [Table Of Contents](#table-of-contents)
- [Features](#features)
- [Installation](#installation)
  - [A. Use our Github Template](#a-use-our-github-template)
  - [B. Remote theme method](#b-remote-theme-method)
  - [C. Gem-based method 💎](#c-gem-based-method-)
- [Configuration and Layouts](#configuration-and-layouts)

## Features

- **Bootstrap 4** - Fully responsive
- **Fontawesome 6** - v5 also supported. v4 is supported via shims but would be deprecated at some point
- **3 different navbar styles**
- **Atom and RSS 2.0** feed
- **Internal search** by Algolia, Lunr or Google Custom Search
- **Comments** by Disqus and Giscus
- **Masonry gallery**
- **Video support** - self-hosted or from core providers: Youtube, Vimeo, DailyMotion...
- **Structured data** for better SEO
- **Code highlight** - +20 Pygment styles
- **Mathjax** inside
- **Google Analytics**
- **Twitter/X Cards** and **Open Graph** data valid for Facebook, LinkedIn and WhatsApp
- **14+ preinstalled skins**
- **Powerful look-and-feel customization** with a dedicated sandbox
- **Archive, cloud tag and index special layouts**
- **Do you like breadcrumbs?** We have it.
- **Multiple authors** with location, picture and social links. Travel blogs and colaborative sites welcome!

Want to know more? [Go to Docs](https://dieghernan.github.io/chulapa/docs/01-install){:target="_blank"}{:rel="noopener noreferrer"}.

## Installation

Sample `_config` file [here](https://github.com/dieghernan/chulapa/blob/master/_config.yml){:target="_blank"}{:rel="noopener noreferrer"}.

There are three possible ways for installing Chulapa:

### A. Use our Github Template

**Recommended if your are starting from scratch.**

Create a Github account, click [this link](https://github.com/dieghernan/chulapa-101/generate){:target="_blank"}{:rel="noopener noreferrer"} and quickstart your site!

### B. Remote theme method

**Recommended if you are migrating a previous site.**

If you prefer not to use the template, you can use the `jekyll-remote-theme` method. Just follow these steps:

1.- Create a new GitHub repository or go to an existing one

2.- Add this line to your `_config.yml`:

``` yaml
remote_theme: dieghernan/chulapa
... more config options
```

3.- Remove other `remote_theme/theme` instances of your `_config.yml` file.

### C. Gem-based method 💎

With Gem-based themes, directories such as the `assets`, `_layouts`, `_includes`, and `_sass` are stored in the theme's gem, hidden from your
immediate view. This allows for easier installation and updating as you don't have to manage any of the theme files.

To install as a Gem-based theme:

1.- Add the following to your `Gemfile`:

``` ruby
gem "chulapa-jekyll"
```

2.- Fetch and update bundled gems by running the following [Bundler](https://bundler.io/){:target="_blank"}{:rel="noopener noreferrer"} command:

``` bash
bundle
```

3.- Set the `theme` in your project's Jekyll `_config.yml` file:

``` yaml
theme: chulapa-jekyll
```

To update the theme run `bundle update`.

## Configuration and Layouts

You have available an extensive documentation [here](https://dieghernan.github.io/chulapa/docs/01-install){:target="_blank"}{:rel="noopener noreferrer"}
