---
layout: post
comments: true
toc: true
title: Doctored
date: 2025-05-04 22:00:00 +01:00
update_date: 2025-11-22
repo: https://github.com/matmanna/doctored
demo: https://matmanna.github.io/doctored/
forks: 0
stars: 2
download: https://github.com/matmanna/doctored/archive/refs/heads/main.zip
author: Mat Manna
thumbnail: doctored.png
license: MIT
license_link: https://opensource.org/license/MIT
carousel:
  - 'screenshot-1.png'
  - 'screenshot-2.png'
  - 'screenshot-3.png'
  - 'screenshot-4.png'
  - 'screenshot-5.png'
  - 'screenshot-6.png'
---

A blog theme prioritizing uniqueness, technical complexity, and sophistication.

Made using Jekyll and Tailwind following the [Tonic](https://tonic.hackclub.com){:target="_blank"}{:rel="noopener noreferrer"} starter guide and [template](https://github.com/hackclub/tonic-starter){:target="_blank"}{:rel="noopener noreferrer"}. No other jekyll theme really felt like it matched what I would have wanted so I created my own!

## Features

- 20+ color schemes & dark/light/system modes
- Projects, blog, now, and contact pages
- GFM support (tables, admonitions, etc.)
- Git metadata access
- Floating Table of Contents
- Side & foot notes
- RSS feed & sitemap
- Responsive nav, footer sections

## Installation

> [!NOTE]
> Additional installation/usage instructions are WIP

To add to an existing Jekyll site using the packaged gem (recommended):

1. add the `gem "jekyll-theme-doctored` dependency to your `Gemfile`
2. run `bundle install`
3. add `theme: jekyll-theme-doctored` to your Jekyll `_config.yml`
4. follow the usage instructions below to serve (or continue customizing) your site!

## ⌨️ Usage

### ▶️ Running

Run `npm install` and `npm run dev` to develop. Run `npm run build` to build. Postinstall and other scripts have been configured to use `bundle install`, `bundle exec jekyll serve --watch`, and `bundle exec jekyll build` respectively.

### 🖼️ Formatting posts

If you want to use sidenotes in your posts/pages, begin by copying the `utils/postMarkdown.py` script and creating a `_drafts` directory within your project.

To post a new post, run `python utils/postMarkdown.py _drafts/_posts/example-001.md`, which will  format and copy it to `_posts/` (or root if page!)

- **Foot/sidenotes:**

  To add a foot/side note, include the following in your draft markdown:

  ```html
  <small>Richly-formatted (html) content of note</small>
  ```

## Contributing

Please create Issues and PRs for bugs/feature requests and updated code respectively.

## License

Doctored is licensed under the MIT, which means you can do (almost) anything with it!!
